# Evil Corp
Welcome to EC.
Have a look around, we're hosting interesting files for the few intelligent enough to utilize them.

### fuck society

What is it that makes you hate society this much?

Oh, i don't know. Is it that we collectively thought Steve Jobs was a great man, when when we knew he made billions off the backs of children? Or maybe it's that it feels like all our heroes are counterfeit. the world itself's just a big hoax. Spamming with our running commentary of bullshit masquerading as insight, our social media faking as intimacy. Or is it that we voted for this? Not with our rigged elections, but with our things, our property, our money. I'm not saying anything new. We all know why we do this, not because Hunger Games books make us happy but because we wanna be sedated. Because it's painful not to pretend, because we're cowards. Fuck society.

### education

the only thing you learn that sticks is absolute obedience. breaking your resistence to doing uninteresting, brain numbing, pointless tasks - repeatedly without any tangible rewards for 8 hours a day 6 days a week for many years. this form of childabuse leads to a proud little workerbee NPC population that will always wait for instruction and do what they are told, happily accepting all kinds of authority. And that's appropriate for the world we live in, after-all you're supposed to continue doing that for the next 50 years of your life at your job that doesn't pay you nearly enough to make it worth the time investment - but that doesn't matter to educated people. and i'm supposed to be grateful for the  privilege of having drag strippers teach my children how to twerk

### religion

yet another form of control from top-down. you better pray and hope for the best instead of actually doing anything to bring it to life. no. you just try to be as pleasant as possible and enable the evil to become stronger just so you can continue telling yourself that you're a good boy and go to heaven - a place that doesn't exist and you can't seem to grow out of believing because without it you'd have to face the possibility that you're wasting your life

### ideology

left = good, right = bad. that's what you learn in public  schools. all the teachers and professors have to be on board with the extremist left ideology and take their seminars, courses and certifications to be allowed to teach. gender training, diversity training, ... teaching keeps getting worse and worse and thats why most teachers and professors who are not compatible with the far-left ideology leave their profession behind. children have been raised by the ideologues to identify with the left without having a contrasing point of view for at least two generations almost exclusively and suddenly we find ourselves in a world of cancel culture, anti-white racism, massive immigration and crime, no-go zones and anti-fascist groups in uniforms burning down stores. They actually believe they are not fascist.

### language

nobody knows what a woman is anymore. if you do know, you're a racist or a nazi or a bigot or transphobic or whatever else they come up with on the spot. an infinite amount of pronouns and gender identities, feminists still talking about the patriarchy. everything has to be politically correct.

### politics

the people still do not understand that it does not matter who runs the country. we do not have democracy. we have the right to elect but not the right to select. when was the last time a person from the general public was voted into power that wasnt super-rich or had the right familyname? 10 out of 10 elections are won by the party that spends the most money. politics are just a theater that keeps the npcs fighting among themselves instead of uniting aginst the few and bringing forth a revolution. every election is about Education/Jobs, Security/Safety, Budget, Taxes and War. War on terror, war on drugs, war on ... just make the herd afraid, uncertain and promise them to solve everything.



* Their promises deceived us
* Their deception  made us afraid
* The fear made us consent
* The consent let it happen
* We have become too weak
* Weakness made us cowards
* Cowards sacrifice their brothers

=> /info.gmi Further Information
=> /files/ File Listing

### Server Information

This Capsule is powered by Atlas and hosted in a non-disclosed datacenter somewhere, mirrored everywhere.

